MAN   Sandra, I seem to remember you had some family visitors staying with you recently

WOMAN   Yeah that right. My brother and his family were here a couple of months ago.

MAN   OK, good. Well, I wanted to ask for your advice. I got my cousin and her family visiting next month and as I don’t have kids, I’ve no idea where to take them.

WOMAN   Right. What about accommodation? Are they going to stay with you in your flat?

MAN   No, thankfully. There wouldn’t be room. My cousin wants me to recommend a hotel. Do you know anywhere?

WOMAN   Yes, I do actually. I always recommend people stay at the King’s Hotel.

MAN   Where’s that near?

WOMAN   It’s about a five minutes walk from Murray Station, so nice and central. It’s actually on George Street.

MAN   Oh yes, I know.

WOMAN   I think they’re on quite a tight budget, so how much roughly is it to stay there? If you book a family room, it’s about £125 per night. My brother paid for two double rooms in the end, and I think that was around £95 for each room.

MAN   Oh, that’s not too bad.

WOMAN   So how old are your cousins’ kids?

MAN   Twelve and nine. So I want to organise some trips while they’re here. I was thinking of doing a bus tour of the city centre, as none of them have been here before.

WOMAN   Those bus tours are quite expensive. I think it’s better to do a walking tour. It gives you a much better feel for the city. There’s one that starts from Colton Square. It takes a couple of hours and doesn’t cost that much.

MAN   Sounds good. I’ll look that up. Thanks.

WOMAN   If the weather’s nice, one thing you could do is visit the old fort. You could get there by boat. The whole trip takes half a day.

MAN   That’s a really good idea. I’d like to do that myself. And if the weather bad I was thinking they could go to the science museum. But maybe they could do that when I at work.

WOMAN   Yeah don forget it closed on Mondays

MAN   They here from Saturday for four nights so Tuesday would be best I think

WOMAN    And it won’t be so crowded then. Saturdays are terrible. I took my kids to the exhibition on old computers there and it was far too crowded. I wanted to go back but it’s finished now.

MAN   That’s a shame. My cousin’s kids would have enjoyed that.

WOMAN   There’s another one starting soon on space, which looks really good too.

MAN   OK, well, I’ll mention that to my cousin.

WOMAN   Have you thought about where to take them to eat?

MAN   Well, I really like all the food stalls at Clacton Market. My cousin’s vegetarian. I know it’s one of the best places for that kind of food.

WOMAN   Definitely, and there’ll be loads of choices for the kids too. You need to get there quite early, though. At the weekend, most of the stores stop serving lunch at 2.30.

MAN   Good point. It’s all going to need careful planning. My cousin said she’d love to take the kids to a show at the theatre, but tickets are so expensive.

WOMAN   I know. But you can get some good deals if you book online with bargained tickets for the following day. On some seats there a 75 discount

MAN   Really. I must try and get some

WOMAN   Yeah There are lots of things you can do for free as well. No need to spend a fortune.

MAN   Like what?

WOMAN   They’re coming next month, right? Well, check and see if it’s the same weekend as the Roots Music Festival in Blakewell Gardens.

MAN   R-O-O-T-S?

WOMAN   Yeah, check it out online. It’s always a family-friendly event and there’s no entry charge.

MAN   That sounds perfect.

WOMAN   And if you’re in Blakewell Gardens, climb Telegraph Hill. You’ll be able to look right down on the port. Everyone’s always really impressed because it’s so huge.

MAN   Oh yeah, I’ve been meaning to do that for ages. I’ve heard the view’s amazing.

WOMAN   Yeah, it’s really worth the effort.

MAN   Well, that’s given me loads of ideas. Thanks so much.